# MLPerf app for Android with QTI Backend

This subdirectory contains the QTI backend for the MLPerf app, an app-based
implementation of [MLPerf Inference](https://github.com/mlperf/inference) tasks.

## MLPerf Flutter app for mobile

Following instructions build the libqtibackend.so backend and prepares the libraries and
DLC files for integration with the MLPerf flutter app. These DLC files have been
uploaded with the other submission files to here: `<path where needs to be uploaded>`

## Requirements for LA

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable-next-line -->
* [Qualcomm QAIRT SDK](https://softwarecenter.qualcomm.com/api/download/software/sdks/Qualcomm_AI_Runtime_Community/All/2.45.0.260326/v2.45.0.260326.zip)(Version 2.45.0.260326)
* Linux machine capable of running Ubuntu docker images

### Optional

To rebuild the DLC files yourself, you will have these additional requirements:

* Imagenet dataset (LSVRC2012_img_val.tar) put in the build/imagenet/downloads directory
* Linux machine also capable of running Tensorflow debian based docker images

Use your browser to download the SNPE SDK using the links above.

Create your Github personal access token.

### Note for Stable Diffusion

To generate stable diffusion model, please follow the instructions mentioned at
`<path/to/mobile_app_open/mobile_back_qti/DLC/util/StableDiffusion/README.md>`(DLC/util/StableDiffusion/README.md)

For Submission-V6.0, we are not updating the models. So, we can use the models from the last submission itself. Not updating the settings files as well.

### Note for Llama-3.1-8B-instruct

To generate the Llama-3.1-8B-instruct model, please follow the instructions mentioned at
`<path/to/mobile_app_open/mobile_back_qti/DLC/util/LLM/NPU_MODEL_GENERATION/README.md>`(DLC/util/LLM/NPU_MODEL_GENERATION/README.md)

For Submission-V6.0, we are reusing the models already being generated for MLPerf-Client-V1.6 submission. The model was generated by MLCommons engineers in the Client group.So, there is not need to generate the models again.
However, the models are packed differently. So, we need to download the models from the current links and upload it in the right location meant for Mobile group.

<https://client.mlcommons-storage.org/deps/1.6/scenario_files/llm/llama3/models/NativeQNN/NPU/llama3_npu.zip>

Also need to copy the DLC/util/LLM/NPU_MODEL_GENERATION/genie_config_npu.json to the above unzipped folder

### Command to build the DLCs

```shell
export SNPE_SDK=</path/to/snpe-sdk>
cd DLC/ && make docker/htp-dlc SNPE_SDK=</path/to/QAIRT/SDK>
```

It will take about 2 hours on an 8-core Xeon workstation to generate the DLC files.

## Building the MLPerf app with the QTI backend

Clone mobile_app_open

```shell
git clone https://github.com/mlcommons/mobile_app_open
cd mobile_app_open
```

* If you have an HTTP proxy, you may need the following

```shell
sudo apt install ca-certificates-java
export USE_PROXY_WORKAROUND=1
```

Download and extract the SNPE SDK (from Requirements above) to mobile_app_open/mobile_back_qti

So, the SDK should be placed in the format of mobile_app_open/mobile_back_qti/qairt

Build with the following build command.

```shell
make OFFICIAL_BUILD=true FLUTTER_BUILD_NUMBER=1 WITH_QTI=1 docker/flutter/android/release
```

Build with the following build command to include `stable_diffusion`

* Download `Tutorial for stable diffusion` from QPM Manager.
* Copy `include` folder from `<path_to_tutorial>/model/example3/host_linux_target_android_with_MLPerf/include` to `mobile_back_qti/cpp/backend_qti/StableDiffusionShared/`
* Copy `libStableDiffusion.so` from `<path_to_notebook>/model/example3/host_linux_target_android_with_MLPerf/libs/aarch64-android/` to `mobile_back_qti/cpp/backend_qti/StableDiffusionShared/`
* Run the command below:

```shell
make OFFICIAL_BUILD=true FLUTTER_BUILD_NUMBER=1 WITH_STABLEDIFFUSION=1 WITH_QTI=1 docker/flutter/android/release
```

Build with the following build command to include `LLM`

```shell
make OFFICIAL_BUILD=true FLUTTER_BUILD_NUMBER=1 WITH_STABLEDIFFUSION=1 WITH_GENIE=1 WITH_QTI=1 docker/flutter/android/release
```

This will generate the MLPerf flutter app with QTI backend in ```mobile_app_open/output/android-apks/<date>_mlperfbench-<commit_id>-<qtpsm>.apk```

## Backend Specific Task Config file

The task config settings are embedded in libqtibackend.so. These settings contain the
backend specific data for each task to be run. This backend assumes a few things about
the settings:

1. All the models use "SNPE" for the configuration name and use "snpe_dsp" or "psnpe_dsp" for the accelerator value when using SNPE / PSNPE.
2. Stable diffusion is enabled using StableDiffusionPipeline
3. LLM is enabled using LLMPipeline

## FAQ

### What devices does this backend support?

This backend only supports SD8EliteG5, SD8G5, SD8sG4, SD7G4, SD8Elite devices.
Other already launched Snapdragon based devices can also run the MLPerf app as default fallback.

### Is SNPE used to run all the models?

Yes. All the models use Qualcomm AI Runtime(QAIRT) for execution for current version.

### What devices supports stable diffusion?

Currently, SD8EliteG5, SD8G5, SD8sG4, SD7G4 and SD8Elite device supports stable_diffusion.

### What devices supports LLM?

Currently, SD8EliteG5 supports LLM.
